## Selective State Space Model for Multi-Object Prediction and Tracking in Automated Driving

Multi-Object Tracking is a vital component in automated driving systems as it ensures safe navigation, robust decision making and situational awareness. This thesis investigates the use of Selective State Space Model (Selective SSM) based Mamba models for 3D MOT in automated driving systems. In MOT, observations of objects from previous frames are matched with current directions, through state estimation and data association process. Traditionally, simple motion models such as the Constant Velocity (CV) model, are employed for state estimation step. However, these motion models operates under linear assumption, and cannot fully model the nonlinear motion dynamics of dynamic objects. To address this limitation, Mamba model is designed and implemented for the object trajectory prediction task. Following this, three additional variants of the Mamba models are implemented by combining neural network approach with physics principles from the CV motion model. These trained models outperform the baseline CV motion model, achieving upto 41% reduction in Average Displacement Error (ADE) and 50% reduction in Final Displacement Error (FDE). These trained nonlinear Mamba models are then integrated into a 3D multi-object tracker. When evaluated for the multi-object tracking task, the CV model outperforms the Mamba models in terms of overall tracking accuracy. This thesis presents and thoroughly analyzes the results, exploring the factors that could contribute to this discrepancy, and identifies potential areas to optimize to improve the tracking performance.
